---
layout: "main"
page_title: "The Noise And The Nativity"
updated: 2025-11-11
permalink: "/the_noise_and_the_nativity/index.html" 
authors: ["Silas Schlax"]
editors: ["Caleb H", "Deana Schlax"]
published: "November 19, 2025"
---

<p class="title" data-i18n="essay.title">The Noise And The Nativity</p>


<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par1">Christmas, even through the chaos of December and all the preparation, is something all of us look forward to each year. From spending time with family and eating good food to gift giving, Christmas is a festive and joyful occasion. But why? Why is a single day out of three hundred and sixty-five so special, so…different? Is it because it is so out of the ordinary? Or is there another reason behind it all? Culture says Christmas is about the tangible—the gifts, the food, the traditions; the Bible says it's about Christ. Which is it really, and how should we look at it today?</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par2">Modern culture portrays Christmas as joyful, family oriented, with traditions like gift giving, decorations, and special food. You may be saying to yourself, “What is wrong with all that?” There is nothing inherently wrong with it. Instead it is a matter of the heart. Why do we spend time with family? Why do we give and receive gifts? Why do we decorate? Is it because that is just what we do at Christmas? We gather with family, eat good food, and get gifts. But this is where commercialism shines. Corporations and companies want us to have this mindset because it makes them more money. This is why you see so many advertisements, media, movies, and so much more focused on this theme of the tangible. To them, it is all about money, what will bring in the most, and they do not care what happens to the everyday man. They focus on how many toys, how many rolls of wrapping paper, and yes, even how many cinnamon rolls they can sell. Unfortunately, this mentality has seeped into the everyday person, shaping a mindset of: “How much can I get?” This mindset only brings disappointment, sadness, and anger when you ultimately do not get all you wanted and dreamed for. If this is truly what Christmas is all about, how can those who do not have family, do not have money for food and gifts still have a joyful Christmas? If you set that as your standard of joyfulness for the holiday, you cannot be happy or joyful. You will only be sad and jealous over what you do not have.</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par3">If Christmas is not about family, festivities, and gifts, what is it about? Simply put, Christmas is about Christ, his birth, and the Good News; “And the angel said to them, “Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people” (Luke 2:10, ESV). Christmas at its very roots has nothing to do with gifts, food, or family, but it has everything to do with what God did for us sending his son who would one day die on the Cross.</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par4">That said, these other aspects of Christmas have deep roots in Christianity and the Bible. Take for example family; On that night in Bethlehem, family and strangers gathered in the stables to worship Jesus. Another example is that of gifts; the Wise Men gave Jesus gifts, traveling far and wide to find the newborn King. Additionally, God gave us the greatest gift of all: His Son, Christ. We should not be focused on what we can receive, but on what we can give. What can you bless someone else with? Maybe it’s a tangible item, maybe it’s love and care, or maybe it’s simply spending time with them. Or maybe, just maybe, it is sharing the Gospel with them, telling them about Christ and how he was born on Christmas to die for their sins on the Cross.</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par5">At the center of Christmas—at its heart—it is not about gifts or food, not even about royalty or wealth. It is about Got keeping his promise; the promise of a Messiah who would bring hope, healing, peace, and redemption. That night in the small town of Bethlehem, just as the Scriptures foretold, God stepped into the world as a baby—not as a king, not as a soldier, not as many expected. Christ came as a helpless, perfect child, not born into luxury or wealth but laid in a manger—a feeding trough, wrapped in swaddling cloths, surrounded by animals, family, and shepherds. Christmas is not the celebration of material things, rather, it is the celebration of God coming near. Not as a distant ruler, but as Emmanuel: “God with us.”</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par6">Christmas also reminds us that light shines brightest in the darkest darkness, and the darkness cannot overcome it. Remember the star over Bethlehem? That light broke through the night, guiding all who sought the truth. Light always defeats the darkness; truth always overcomes lies. Christmas reminds us that no one is too far gone, too lost, or too broken for God. In your darkest hour, God is still with you, and if you know Him, He will light your path.</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par7">Christmas is a reminder that true love took on flesh and dwelt among us. It is a yearly reminder that God keeps His promises, we just have to remember that His timing is not ours. Maybe the hardship you are facing is God shaping you, not destroying you. Maybe the pain you feel is God showing you something, not discouraging you. Maybe the longing you feel is God stirring your heart, not leaving you empty. But hear this: if you are not a Christian, maybe—just maybe—it is God calling you to Him.</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par8">But if all this is true, if Christmas is truly about Christ, about Emmanuel, about light breaking into darkness. Then why is it so hard to see it? Why is it so difficult to keep our hearts fixed on the manger instead of everything else around us? Today there is so much noise, so many voices trying to pull us away from the Truth, away from the manger. From TV ads selling the “perfect gift,” to glittering displays in stores, to Black Friday deals, to the endless decorations in every aisle, each one pushes you toward their product, not God's gift. They have cemented in many of our minds that Christmas is this glossy, superficial event portrayed in media and movies. But is it?</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par9">All this noise is not evil in itself. The danger comes when we allow the noise to overwhelm us. Allow it to blur our vision and drown out the real reason we celebrate. When that happens, we rob ourselves and those around us of the hope Christ brings. Christmas put simply by Rev. Billy Graham is, “a cradle, a cross, and a crown” (“<i><a href="https://billygraham.org/answers/what-is-the-deeper-meaning-of-christmas">What is the Deeper Meaning of Christmas,</a></i>” Rev. Billy Graham). And the problem? The problem is allowing the noise to speak so loudly that it outshines the star over Bethlehem and the multitude of angels singing, “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased” (Luke 2:14, ESV).</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par10">You know the solution to the noise? The nativity—Christ—was the solution, is the solution, and forever will be the solution. As it says in John, God sent his only Son to be born as a man and die on the Cross for our sins: “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life” (John 3:16, ESV). This is what we need to remember every Christmas, not to mourn his death on the Cross, but to be joyful in his birth, his coming into this world. Rejoice, for the King has come, born in a manger for all the world. Or as the hymn by Isaac Watts, <i>Joy to the World</i>, sings:</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.joy1">Joy to the world; the Lord is come;</p><br>
<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.joy2">Let Earth receive her King;</p><br>
<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.joy3">Let ev'ry heart prepare him room,</p><br>
<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.joy4">And heav'n and nature sing.</p><br>
<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.joy5">Joy to the Earth, the Savior reigns;</p><br>
<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.joy6">Our mortal songs employ,</p><br>
<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.joy7">While fields and floods, rocks, hills and plains,</p><br>
<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.joy8">Repeat the sounding joy.</p><br><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par11">This is Christmas: Christ has come, and that truth changes everything.</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par12">As we step into this Christmas season, let us not lose sight of what matters most. Christmas is not built on gifts or gatherings, nor on traditions or decorations, but on the unshakeable truth that God came near. A Savior was born, hope entered the world, and an unimaginable light broke through the darkness. Our world will keep shouting its messages, but we do not have to listen. Instead. Instead, we turn our eyes back to the manger, back to the Child who changed history. So this Christmas, prepare Him room. Slow down. Look past the world’s noise. Choose to give rather than grasp. Share Christ with someone who needs hope. Love someone who feels unseen. Let your life—our lives—reflect the joy of the One who came for you. Because if Christ is truly at the center of Christmas, then everything—your heart, your home, your joy—will shine with the light of the King who came to save.</p><br>

<p class="pg-st" data-i18n="essay.par13">If you are not a Christian, we urge you to read the Christmas story found in <a href="https://www.esv.org/Luke+2">Luke 2</a>, find a Bible-believing, Bible-teaching church near you and attend a service. We pray that you’ll come to know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. If you’re looking for a place to celebrate Christmas this year, you can find local RDU services listed on our home page.</p><br>
